---
title: 计算机网络部分操作
---
or build prereqs, see the CS144 VM setup instructions.

Sponge quickstart
To set up your build directory:

$ mkdir -p <path/to/sponge>/build
$ cd <path/to/sponge>/build
$ cmake ..
Note: all further commands listed below should be run from the build dir.

To build:

$ make
You can use the -j switch to build in parallel, e.g.,

$ make -j$(nproc)
To test (after building; make sure you've got the build prereqs installed!)

$ make check_labN *(replacing N with a checkpoint number)*
The first time you run make check_lab..., it will run sudo to configure two TUN devices for use during testing.

build options
You can specify a different compiler when you run cmake:

$ CC=clang CXX=clang++ cmake ..
You can also specify CLANG_TIDY= or CLANG_FORMAT= (see "other useful targets", below).

Sponge's build system supports several different build targets. By default, cmake chooses the Release target, which enables the usual optimizations. The Debug target enables debugging and reduces the level of optimization. To choose the Debug target:

$ cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
The following targets are supported:

Release - optimizations
Debug - debug symbols and -Og
RelASan - release build with ASan and UBSan
RelTSan - release build with ThreadSan
DebugASan - debug build with ASan and UBSan
DebugTSan - debug build with ThreadSan
Of course, you can combine all of the above, e.g.,

$ CLANG_TIDY=clang-tidy-6.0 CXX=clang++-6.0 .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
Note: if you want to change CC, CXX, CLANG_TIDY, or CLANG_FORMAT, you need to remove build/CMakeCache.txt and re-run cmake. (This isn't necessary for CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE.)

other useful targets
To generate documentation (you'll need doxygen; output will be in build/doc/):

$ make doc
To format (you'll need clang-format):

$ make format
To see all available targets,

$ make help
